this Smith Trico system is what I used
to sharpen my knives I use this for
everything from kitchen knives to pocket
folders
I'm gonna use this to sharpen this
machete up that I got from cold steel
this is the cold steel kukri machete
cheap little thing 20 bucks but it
doesn't come sharp at all I mean this is
uh and I shouldn't be able to do that
with a sharp machete but I believe they
they tell you that it doesn't come sharp
so you know you're sort of not caught by
surprise when you get this dull piece of
metal there is even still this you know
this black oxide finish or whatever kind
of finish this is on the on the edge
where they did their factory grind this
try own system you can buy this from
anyway I believe I bought this from
Lowe's hardware store what it comes with
is two large pieces of Arkansas stone
and one piece of aluminum oxide for some
coarse grinding and they're labeled but
there's this course and then medium and
fine and then it comes with some honing
solution this is what you want to have
on the stone and on the blade so you get
a smoother grind and then this is what
it comes with I bought a bigger one just
because I know I'm gonna be using this a
lot and then it also comes with this
little plastic piece which is a
sharpening guide so if you don't know
what angle to hold your blade at when
you sharpen this will give you an exact
23 degree angle
when you sharpen it put that blade you
put that angle or the guide right there
and hold your knife right up to it and
what you're gonna want to do is just
kind of use that as a guide it's gonna
be real difficult to try to sharpen
while holding this guide so this will
give you an idea about what angle to
hold it at and you're kind of off on
your own from that point on for this
machete it's not real critical I'm gonna
do probably closer to 25 degrees than 21
22 degrees
this is 23 right in the middle just
because I want this this to be a little
bit stronger 20 degrees 21 degrees might
make the the edge a little too easily
chipped too thin so let me see what else
is in here I don't believe there's
anything else okay let me just show you
the box I've had this thing for a while
so it's a little beat up
okay for something like this we're you
gonna take off a lot of material what a
lot of people will do is they'll take a
grinder to the edge you know give it
some give that it that initial grinding
with something rough and something you
know something with a power tool so you
don't have to do a lot of work this will
be kind of tricky the belly will be easy
to sharpen cuz I can just kind of work
my way through that like this this part
will be kind of tough because it's kind
of close to the handle and it's got this
concave shape where you know you're
gonna have to be a little bit more
careful because these stones are so wide
and flat that it's gonna be hard to get
every edge of the concave blade shape
sharpened so we'll see how I do I might
have to go back in there with something
smaller and fix that up but I'm gonna
initially just grind the con the non
concave edge of the blade the belly of
the blade which we'll start from right
here all the way to the tip and I'll do
that but before I do that let me just
show you the technique that I'm gonna be
using I'm not actually gonna sharpen yet
but I'm just gonna show you so I'm gonna
hold the knife if you need this guide
use the guide to give you an idea about
where to hold it okay right there lay
the blade of the of the knife right on
that slanted surface so you know the
angle get an idea about where you're
gonna put your your hand that you're
gonna push then you want to push edge
first up the blade okay you don't want
to drag it you want to push towards it
so and then what you're gonna want to do
is use your right hand as you push you
want to drag the blade towards the tip
from the back of the stone to the front
of the stone so you get the entire belly
all the way to the tip
you sharpen you want to do that on both
sides so whether you're left-handed or
right-handed gonna have to do this on
both hands okay the other way you can do
it you can flip it around and put a
direct pull it towards you that's
another technique you can use so you can
push it this way on that edge drag it
towards you on this edge I personally
like to do one edge at a time because I
get a rhythm down so I can push push
push and get an idea about how far I've
done I keep track of how many times I
push it through and then do the same
thing on the other side like that okay
it's nice to have your fingers and the
spy so you can get some nice precise
control and then obviously you want to
go from the course to the medium and to
the fine once you get through all three
stones and then what you're going to
want to do is if you got it pretty sharp
you cut it the way you like it
take a take a knife steel if you got a
set of knives at home you'll have a nice
deal and just put an edge and not play
with a knife steal the knife steel is
not gonna do any hardly any sharpening
not gonna take off much much metal at
all but it's gonna take a lot of the the
crud that you've created by sharpening
you get it's gonna smooth that blade out
right at the edge it's gonna put a nice
precise sharp edge on it okay and that's
kind of a quick overview of the Smith
tri home and just my technique for how
I'm gonna sharpen this machete